= Improvements/Features =
=== General ===
 * Added prompt to retry project loading if compilation of project definition fails.
 * `package` action now only executes when inputs have changed.
 * Added `help` command that displays an informative message and describes the commands available at the interactive prompt.
 * Added `reload` command to reread the project definition without having to restart sbt.
 * Added `console-quick` action for when you want fast access to the Scala interpreter but don't need your project compiled.
 * Added `clean-cache` action to delete Ivy's artifact and metadata cache.

=== Dependency Management ===
 * Added ability to specify inline Ivy XML configuration in project definition (see towards the bottom of the [LibraryManagement Library Management] page).
 * Can specify Ivy configurations as fourth piece of inline dependencies `(... % "runtime->compile")`.

=== Custom Actions ===
 * Added `fileTask` methods for tasks that execute when the inputs/outputs are out of date (see [CustomActions Creating/Modifying Actions] page).
 * `sbt.FileUtilities` is cleaned up and ready for general use:
  * Provides zip, unzip, temporary directories, copying, ...
  * see the [ActionContent Implementing actions] page for an overview of capabilities or the [http://simple-build-tool.googlecode.com/svn/artifacts/0.3.5/api/sbt/FileUtilities$object.html API Documentation] for details.

=== Web Applications ===
 * `package` action creates war file.
 * Added `jetty-run` and `jetty-stop` actions.
 * See [WebApplications web applications] page for more information.
 
= Fixes =
 * Fixed bug #11 (project/build.properties unnecessarily updated).
 * Fixed problem with dependencies where source jars would be used instead of binary jars.
 * Fixed scala-tools not being used by default for inline configurations.