= sbt has moved =

*sbt has now completely moved to !GitHub.*

See https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki.

= Changes from 0.5.1 to 0.5.2 =

== Improvements ==
 * Better support for Java sources.  Dependency tracking of Java sources is implemented by parsing class files.
 * Added `classifier` method for inline dependency declarations.  This provides support for publishing artifacts with classifiers and retrieving dependencies with classifiers.  A limitation is that the classifiers for dependencies are not written to your project's published pom.
 * Project dependencies are now added to published Ivy files (they were already added for POMs)
 * The `crossScalaVersions` and `managedStyle` methods default to the value of a parent project, if there is one.
 * Added `execTask` that accepts an `sbt.ProcessBuilder` to run when invoked
 * Added implicit conversion in `sbt.Process` that takes `scala.xml.Elem` to `sbt.ProcessBuilder`.  This conversion takes the element's text content, trims it, and splits it around whitespace to obtain the command to run. (See [Process])
 * Added check to verify that dynamic tasks do not reference static tasks
 * Added `Process.cat` that will send contents of `URL`s and `File`s to standard output. (See [Process])

== Fixes ==
 * Issue #29 (Java sources always recompiled)
 * Fix issue where no tests were run when no arguments were provided to `test-failed` or `test-quick`
 * Fixed tab completion for method tasks for multi-project builds
 * Make `Path`s in subprojects print relative to root project directory
 * Properly track dependencies on sources not included in recompilation
 * Added `scala-library.jar` to the `javac` classpath
 * Fixed `run` action swallowing exceptions
 * Fixed problem where dependencies of `sbt` plugins were not on the compile classpath
