= sbt has moved =

*sbt has now completely moved to !GitHub.*

See https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki/Process.


= External Processes =

== Usage ==

`sbt` includes a process library to simplify working with external processes.  To use it in your project definition, import the implicits defined in `sbt.Process`:

{{{
import Process._
}}}
Note: the interpreter started by the [ProjectConsole console-project] command imports the members of `Process` on startup.

To run a command, follow it with an exclamation mark `!`:

{{{
"find project -name *.jar" !
}}}

An implicit converts the `String` to `sbt.ProcessBuilder`, which defines the `!` method.  This method runs the constructed command, waits until the command completes, and returns the exit code.  Alternatively, the `run` method defined on `ProcessBuilder` runs the command and returns an instance of `sbt.Process`, which can be used to `destroy` the process before it completes.  With no arguments, the `!` method sends output to standard output and and standard error.  You can pass a `Logger` to the `!` method to send output to the `Logger`:

{{{
"find project -name *.jar" ! log
}}}

Two alternative implicit conversions are from `scala.xml.Elem` or `List[String]` to `sbt.ProcessBuilder`.  These are useful for constructing commands.  An example of the first variant from the android plugin:

{{{
  <x> {dxPath.absolutePath} --dex --output={classesDexPath.absolutePath} {classesMinJarPath.absolutePath}</x> !
}}}

If you need to set the working directory or modify the environment, use a `java.lang.ProcessBuilder` instead of a `String`:

{{{
 ( (new java.lang.ProcessBuilder("ls", "-l")) directory new File(System.getProperty("user.home")) ) ! log
}}}

Operators are defined to combine commands.  These operators start with `#` in order to keep the precedence the same and to separate them from the operators defined elsewhere in `sbt` for filters.  In the following operator definitions, `a` and `b` are subcommands.

 * `a #&& b`   Execute `a`.  If the exit code is nonzero, return that exit code and do not execute `b`.  If the exit code is zero, execute `b` and return its exit code.
 * `a #|| b`   Execute `a`.  If the exit code is zero, return zero for the exit code and do not execute `b`.  If the exit code is nonzero, execute `b` and return its exit code.
 * `a #| b`   Execute `a` and `b`, piping the output of `a` to the input of `b`.

There are also operators defined for redirecting output to `File`s and input from `File`s and `URL`s.  In the following definitions, `url` is an instance of `URL` and `file` is an instance of `File`.

 * `a #< url` or `url #> a`   Use `url` as the input to `a`.  `a` may be a `File` or a command.
 * `a #< file` or `file #> a`   Use `file` as the input to `a`.  `a` may be a `File` or a command.
 * `a #> file` or `file #< a`   Write the output of `a` to `file`.  `a` may be a `File`, `URL`, or a command.
 * `a #>> file` or `file #<< a`   Append the output of `a` to `file`.  `a` may be a `File`, `URL`, or a command.

There are some additional methods to get the output from a forked process into a `String` or the output lines as a `Stream[String]`.  Here are some examples, but see the [http://simple-build-tool.googlecode.com/svn/artifacts/latest/api/sbt/ProcessBuilder.html ProcessBuilder API documentation] for details.
{{{
val listed: String = "ls" !!
val lines2: Stream[String] = "ls" lines_!
}}}

Finally, there is a `cat` method to send the contents of `File`s and `URL`s to standard output.

== Examples ==

These examples assume the following imports:

{{{
import java.io.File
import java.io.URL
import Process._
}}}

Download a `URL` to a `File`:
{{{
new URL("http://databinder.net/dispatch/About") #> new File("About.html") !
or
new File("About.html") #< new URL("http://databinder.net/dispatch/About") !
}}}

Copy a `File`:
{{{
new File("About.html") #> new File("About_copy.html") !
or
new File("About_copy.html") #< new File("About.html") !
}}}

Append the contents of a `URL` to a `File` after filtering through `grep`:
{{{
new URL("http://databinder.net/dispatch/About") #> "grep JSON" #>> new File("About_JSON") !
or
new File("About_JSON") #<< ( "grep JSON" #< new URL("http://databinder.net/dispatch/About") )  !
}}}

Search for uses of `null` in the source directory:
{{{
"find src -name *.scala -exec grep null {} ;"  #|  "xargs test -z"  #&&  "echo null-free"  #||  "echo null detected"  !
}}}

Use `cat`:
 {{{
    val spde = new URL("http://technically.us/spde/About")
    val dispatch = new URL("http://databinder.net/dispatch/About")
    val build = new File("project/build.properties")
    cat(spde, dispatch, build) #| "grep -i scala" !
}}}
